# Exercise 1.1

Locate a discussion of Russell's paradox, and understand it.

---

## Answer

Let $R$ be the set of all sets that do not contain themselves.

Paradox.

# Exercise 1.2

Prove that if  $\sim$  is a relation on a set  $S $,

then the corresponding family  $\mathscr{P}_{\sim} $ defined in  $\S 1.5$

is indeed a partition of  $S$  :

that is, its elements are nonempty, disjoint, and their union is  $S$ . [§1.5]

---

## Proof

Nonempty: for each class, $x\in\left[x\right]$

Disjoint: Suppose $z\in \left[x\right]\cap\left[y\right]$, then we have:

$z\sim x, z\sim y\Rightarrow x\sim y\Rightarrow \left[x\right] = \left[y\right]$

Union: we can know every element is in some equivalence class.

---

# Exercise 1.3

Given a partition  $\mathscr{P}$  on a set  $S$ ,

show how to define a relation  $\sim$  on  $S $ such that  

$\mathscr{P}$  is the corresponding partition. [§1.5]

---

## Answer

$x\sim y \Leftrightarrow \exists P \in \mathscr{P} s.t. x\in P , y\in P$

---

# Exercise 1.4

How many different equivalence relations may be defined on the set $\{1,2,3\}$?

---

## Answer

5, $\{\{1,2,3\}\},\{\{1\},\{2,3\}\},\{\{2\},\{1,3\}\},\{\{3\},\{1,2\}\},\{\{1\},\{2\},\{3\}\}$

---

# Exercise 1.5

Give an example of a relation that is reflexive and symmetric but not transitive.

What happens if you attempt to use this relation to define a partition on the set?

(Hint: Thinking about the second question will help you answer the first one.)

---

## Answer

Let $R=\{(a,a), (b,b), (c,c), (a,b), (b,a), (b,c), (c,b)\}$

When we try to form equivalence classes:

$a$ and $c$ are indirectly connected through $b$,

but they are not directly related.

---

# Exercise 1.6

$\triangleright $ Define a relation $ \sim $ on the set $ \mathbb{R} $ of real numbers 

by setting  $a \sim b \Longleftrightarrow b-a \in   \mathbb{Z} $.

Prove that this is an equivalence relation, 

and find a 'compelling' description for  $\mathbb{R} / \sim $. 

Do the same for the relation  $\approx  $on the plane  $\mathbb{R} \times \mathbb{R}$  defined by declaring  $\left(a_{1}, a_{2}\right) \approx\left(b_{1}, b_{2}\right) \Longleftrightarrow b_{1}-a_{1} \in \mathbb{Z}  $and  $b_{2}-a_{2} \in \mathbb{Z}$ . [§II.8.1, II.8.10]

---

## Proof

Reflectivity: $a - a = 0 \in \mathbb{Z}$

Symmetric: $b - a = c \in \mathbb{Z}, -c \in \mathbb{Z}, a-b\in\mathbb{Z}$

Transitivity: $b-a = x\in\mathbb{Z}, c-b = y\in\mathbb{Z}, y + x\in\mathbb{Z}$

$R/\sim \cong [0,1)$
