# Long-run property 

## Eventually reaching probability

$f_{i,j} = P(\exists n>0, X_n = j|X_0 = i)$

---

$f_{i,j} = \sum_n f_{ij}^n$
- $f_{i,j}$: Eventually reaching probability
- $f_{ij}$: First reaching probability

## Proposition 

1. if $i $ is recurrent, $i$ and $j $ is transitive, then $f_{i,j} = 1 $

## Positive recurrent & Null recurrent

$N_j = \min \{ n > 0| X_n = j\}$: steps needed for revisit 

$m_j = E[N_j | X_0 = j]$: expectation steps of revisit 

- if $m_j < \infty$, $j$ is **Positive recurrent**
- if $m_j = \infty$, $j$ is **Null recurrent**

---

$m_j = E[N_j|X_0 = j] = \sum_{n=1}^\infty n f_{jj}^{(n)}$

## Long-run proportion

$\pi_{j}=\dfrac{1}{m_{j}}=\dfrac{1}{E\left[N_{j} \mid X_{0}=j\right]}$

### Theorem

$\pi_j = \sum_{i}\pi_i P_{ij}, j\ge 1$
where: $\sum_{j} \pi_j  = 1$

### Note

that equals to:

$\pi^T = \pi^T P$

### Theorem 

$L = \lambda W$

- $L$: Long-run proportion
- $\lambda$: flow-in probability
- $W$: average time

-------------------------## Stationary probability

$\pi_j$: stationary probability

### Example 

> Example 4.25 Assume that the number of new families checking into a hotel each day follows a Poisson distribution with mean $ \lambda $. Additionally, the number of days a family stays at the hotel is a geometric random variable with parameter $ p \in(0,1) $ (the checkout probability). All families act independently. Let $ X_{n} $ denote the number of families staying at the hotel on the $ n $-th day. It can be shown that $ \left\{X_{n}, n \geq 0\right\} $ is a Markov chain. Find:
> 
> (a) The transition probabilities of the Markov chain.
> 
> (b) $ E\left[X_{n} \mid X_{0}=i\right] $.
> 
> (c) The stationary probabilities of the Markov chain.

### Solution (a)

From $i$ to $j$: remains $k$, comes $j-k$

Number of remain: $B(i, 1-p)$
Number of arrival: $Poi(\lambda)$

$P_{ij} = \sum_{k=0}^{\min(i,j)}\binom{i}{k}(1-p)^k p^{i-k}\cdot\dfrac{e^{-\lambda }\lambda^{j-k}}{(j-k)!}$

### Solution (b)

$ E\left[X_{n+1} \mid X_{0}=i\right]=(1-p) E\left[X_{n} \mid X_{0}=i\right]+\lambda $

Then:

$ E\left[X_{n} \mid X_{0}=i\right]=\left(i-\frac{\lambda}{p}\right)(1-p)^{n}+\frac{\lambda}{p} $.

### Solution (c)

$ \mu=(1-p) \mu+\lambda $

Then we get:

$\mu = \dfrac{\lambda}{p}$

### Example 

> A company has $ r $ types of employees. - A type $ i $ employee transitions to type $ j(j=1, \ldots, r) $ in the next period with probability $ q_{i j} $, or leaves the company with probability $ 1-\sum_{j=1}^{r} q_{i j} $. - Each period, new employees of type $ j $ are hired according to independent Poisson processes with mean $ \lambda_{j} $. - Let $ \boldsymbol{X}_{n}=\left(X_{n}(1), \ldots, X_{n}(r)\right) $, where $ X_{n}(i) $ is the number of type $ i $ employees at period $ n $. Then $ \left\{\boldsymbol{X}_{n}\right\} $ is a Markov chain. Find the stationary probability distribution of this Markov chain.

### Solution 

$ \mu_{j}=\sum_{i=1}^{r} \mu_{i} q_{i j}+\lambda_{j} \quad $ for all $ j=1, \ldots, r $.

## Proposition 

$\lim _{N \rightarrow \infty} \frac{\sum_{n=1}^{N} r\left(X_{n}\right)}{N}=\sum_{j=0}^{\infty} r(j) \pi_{j}$

## Period of a state

$d$: period, only $d$'s multiple can revisit 

$P_{ii}^n$ divergence



placeholder


placeholder


placeholder


placeholder


placeholder


